# Build a comprehensive dashboards and alerting system


## Goal

Let us start with the WebApp that we have.

One thing we must be clear:

* Monitor -> For analysis
* Alerts -> For issues 

Alert is just a subset of Monitor. 

Each alert should map to a response action. 

## Starting from the 4 golden signals

According to the 4 golden signals, we need Error Rate, Throughput, Latency, Saturation. 

These 4 golden signals can be used as alerts.

* Would the monitor show a good picture of the webApp when we only introduce error rate?
* What about the healthy response?
* How do I tell if every host/region/url is functional? 
  
* Should we set alerts on them if they are not functional? What problems do we see?
* How we set a threshold? How to make the alert less noisy?


## Build the monitors first

You need to gain enough visibility to decide which metrics with which labels can be used for alerts

Let us build an all-inclusive Throughput, Success/Error Rate, Error count and Latency dashboard, which includes all the labels for now.


## Filter and play around with the threshold

The labels are your good companions and use them to filter your data. You may need to try a different math for the threshold calculation

For example, avg() is going to slow down the trigger of an alert. There are min(), max() and many other could help with triggering alerts faster.


## Test the alerts

Make sure you have tested the alerts yourself before making it available to prod. 
You can 
* set up a testbed environment 
* trigger the alerts via a script
* channel the alerts to slack to avoid being paged
* review the alerts


## When an alert triggered what do we do?

An alert means that the system may not be able to recover itself and require human to look into it.


## Questions
* Are you able to create a dashboard with variables that can monitor a WebApp comprehensively?
  (Hint: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/variables/)
* Are you able to monitor container saturation (CPU, memory, disk of the WebApp container)?
  (Hint: https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/cadvisor/)