# DevOps Career and Interview Overview
* Some interesting questions
* DevOps Career Overview
    * DevOps review
    * DevOps related jobs
    * Career Ladder
    * Compensation range
    * How to do the job research?
* Interview Process Overview
    * Phone Call
    * Resume
    * Coding Interview
    * Technical Interview
    
# Questions and misunderstandings
## Career Related

* Should I apply for a role in a big company, or in a small company or continue with a master or Phd?

* Do I have to apply for a junior role if I don't have DevOps experience?

* Do I have to have 3 year or 5 year experience if I apply for a mid role?

* Is 100k a good salary for a devOps engineer?

* What position can I be in 5 years? What does my career look like?

* How do I compare DevOps Engineer with Software Engineer?

* What company should I pick?

* What are the top perks of the best companies?

* What is DevOps exactly? Do I need to master everything that I have learnt from this course?
  * Culture
  * Only need to deep dive in one or two areas and be able to communicate
  * Connect the dots
  * Provide a way for you to think and prepare


# DevOps Engineer?

## What is it?
DevOps is a software development strategy which bridges the gap between the developers and the operations. With DevOps, 
organizations can release small features very quickly and incorporate the feedback which they receive, very quickly. 
Following are some other benefits:

* Fewer Software Failure
* Shortened lead time between fixes
* Faster release cycle -> improved dev speed
* Better visibility
* Measurable business metrics
* Feedback loop

Tools or processes:

* IDE:
    * Be familiar with one and be able to use it during the coding interview

* Code and Package Management:
    * Git/Github/Bitbucket – Source code management (Version Control System)
    * Pip, Mvn, Npm - Package management

* System Natives:
    * Linux/Unix
    * Bash
    * Python Scripting

* CI/CD:
    * Jenkins – Automation server, with plugins built for developing CI/ CD pipelines
    * Unittest - Be able to write a few
    * Selenium – Automation testing
    * Gatling/Locust - Load testing

* Containerisation and Orchestration:
    * Docker – Software Containerization Platform
    * Kubernetes – Container Orchestration tool

* Configuration/Infrastructure as code:
    * Terraform/Ansible/Chef ... – Configuration Management and Deployment

* Monitoring and Alerting:
    * Statsd/Prometheus - Metrics Collection
    * Grafana, NewRelic – Continuous Monitoring, Application Monitoring, Alerting
    * ELK, Splunk - Logging Monitoring
    * Opsgenie, Pagerduty - Paging

* Others:
    * Incident Management
    * Incident Analysis
    * Sprint Planning
    * Retrospective
    * Roll out strategy
    * Monitoring strategy

* Where do we apply the above tools?
    * WebApp/Mobile App (AWS Cloud)
        * s3 (Static storage)
        * Route53 (DNS)
        * ec2/lambda (App)
        * Memcached/Redis (Cache)
        * SQS/Kafka (Queue)
        * RDS/Aurora (Database)


## What are the job titles?
However, DevOps is a culture not a job. However, many company just uses the name for its job title
* DevOps Engineer
* Cloud Engineer
* SRE

Other job titles:
* System Engineer
* Automation Engineer
* Integration Specialist
* Release Manager

## Why do companies need DevOps engineer?
* Reliably running the application and deliver features continuously
* Reduce the companies operational overheads and toils by providing better automation and tooling to boost the efficiency
* Set up the infrastructure and CI/CD pipelines
* Set up the monitoring, alerts and update runbooks to share the best practice
* Set up auto-scaling and thresholds
* Improve communication and collaboration, especially for incident management

Improved Efficiency/Business Metrics
* Had more time to add more values to the business --> Improved Productivity --> Improved Opex --> Cost less to the business
* Improved SLO/Apdex/Performance/Reliability


## Required Education
* __Required__: Individuals will need a bachelor's degree in computer science, engineering, or a related field, with some employers preferring a master's degree.
* __Beneficial__: A strong background in automated application testing, server configuration management, and scripting will be __beneficial__.
* __Nice to Have__: DevOps engineers can showcase their proficiency in the field by completing the Certified DevOps Engineer offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS). These engineers may also consider membership in an industry organization like the DevOps Agile Skills Association (DASA).

## Compensation Range
Overall base range for a junior-mid level DevOps Engineer:
* Base: 83k - 138k; Avg: 105k  --- Glass door Feb 2020

The large ones:
* Google/AWS/Atlassian: Base + Bonus + Shares (Vested in 4 years) + (Optional) Sign-on bonus


The start-ups:
* Base + Bonus + Options 

Pros:
* Compensation may go viral if IPO

Risks:
* You never know if IPO could happen
* Less bargain for experienced engineers

## How to do a job research?

### Source
* Company website
* Seek
* Glassdoor
* LinkedIn

### Examples
Key takeaways from the job description (DevOps Skills Required):

* Knowledge of one cloud platform (AWS, Azure, GCP)
* Good hands-on knowledge of Configuration Management and Deployment tools like – Puppet, Ansible, Chef, Terraform etc.
* Proficient in scripting, and Git and Git workflows
* Experience in developing Continuous Integration/ Continuous Delivery pipelines (CI/ CD)
* Experience in setting up Monitoring dashboards and Alerts
* Understand the basics of Linux/Server Admin
* Able to code in one of the following language: Python, Java, Go, Nodejs etc... 

