# Questions and misunderstandings
## Interview Related

* How much time should I spend on preparing the resume? and How do I prepare?

* Is the interview all about coding interview?

* How to write an attractive resume?

* The interview question only has one definite answer?

* Are interviewers well prepared?

* Should I ask questions?

* Should I talk about salaries?

* Which interview section is the hardest?

# Interview Structure
- Resume
- Online Test
- Phone Screening
- Coding Interview
- Technical Interview
- Culture/Managerial Interview

## Resume

### Why should we prepare our resume?
* Filter you out from thousands of competitors
* Lure the HR to pick you to the next round interview  

### How to prepare?

####Step 0. Know your goal and audiences
* All you need is to 
  * know which company that you are interested in
  * capture HR/Recruiter's eyes for a phone screening interview
    
* Your audience: HR/Recruiter


####Step 1. Do the research
* What companies are in the market?
  * Are they big/medium/small companies?
  * What products do they have? Who are the competitors?
  * Am I really interested in the company? Does the company really suit me?
  * What benefits do these company provide?
  * Which job title are you applying for? Why?
    
####Step 2. Do the search
* Search the job website and narrow down the range 
    * Am I applying for junior/mid/senior?
    * Does the role fit my skills?
    * Does my skill fit the role?
    * What are the gaps? Am I able to modify the resume to make a fit?
* Filter out those that does not fit. Don't waste time.

####Step 3. Prepare the resume

* Adjust your resume according to the priorities on the job description
* Make sure you have enough DevOps related words in the Resume if you are applying for a DevOps role
* Come up with a story for each bullet points that you put on your resume
* Get someone to proofread/Peer Review
    * avoid grammar mistakes
    * make sure it makes sense
    * let them to ask you question: what was your achievement in X company? etc...




#### Top common mistakes

- __Typos and Grammatical Errors__
  * Download Grammarly and use it to check your grammar mistakes
- __Lack of Specifics__
  
  What is the problem with the following sentences
  * e.g. Worked on xxx software project using Python, VMware, etc..
  * e.g. I am good at Python, Java, JS and know CI/CD 
  
- Attempting One Size Fits All
  * Tailor your resume for different roles
  * The HR wants to see you fit the role
  
- Highlighting Duties Instead of Accomplishments
  
  It's easy to slip into a mode where you simply start listing job duties on your resume. For example:
     
    * Attended group meetings and recorded minutes.
    * Worked with children in a day-care setting.
    * Updated departmental files.
  
  Employers, however, don't care so much about what you've done as what you've accomplished in your various activities. They're looking for statements more like these:
 
    * Used laptop computer to record weekly meeting minutes and compiled them in a Microsoft Word-based file for future organizational reference.
    * Developed three daily activities for preschool-age children and prepared them for a 10-minute holiday program performance.
    * Reorganized 10 years worth of unwieldy files, making them easily accessible to department members.
    
  The golden format: Verb + ed sth for A and B by doing/via/using sth 

- Going on Too Long or Cutting Things Too Short
  * Two page max
  * Put the best fit achievements to the top of each section 
        * (Summary (Object, Tech Stack), Work Experience, Project Experience, Education, Awards, (Referrers) )
  * You don't necessarily need to put the referrers' info
- A Bad Objective

- No Action Verbs
  * Avoid using phrases like "responsible for." Instead, use action verbs: "Resolved user questions as part of an IT help desk serving 4,000 students and staff."
- Leaving off Important Information
  * You may be tempted, for example, to eliminate mention of the jobs you've taken to earn extra money for school. Typically, however, the soft skills you've gained from these experiences (e.g., work ethic, time management) are more important to employers than you might think.

- Visually Too Busy
  * Use simple sentences
  * Use bullet points 
  * Show multiple people 

- Contact Info
  * Make sure they are correct

https://enhancv.com/resume-examples/famous/sheryl-sandberg/#famous-resume

## Online Test
### What is this test about?
- A url with a coding test via email (e.g.Hackerrank) 
- 2 to 3 questions 
- 60 to 90 minutes

### Source:
- Hackerrank
- Leetcode

### How to judge success?
- Once you submit, there will be a set of tests that will be running against your code to evaluate.

### What does it test?
- Attitude
- Basic data structure and algorithms (e.g. You said you know how to use Python, do you really?)
- Work under pressure
- Able to cover corner cases

### Why online test?
- Filter out the elites from the majorities (help balance HR's workload)

### Tips
- Make sure you think twice about the corner cases
- Make sure you think about time vs space complexity when you pick your data structure and algorithm
- Make sure you don't have the +1 or -1 problem when you access index
- No Null Pointer Exceptions (NPE) please
- Be sure to know the best practice and formats of your coding language
- Use explicit variable names as much as possible
- Grads interview could be harder than a social one
- Some trading companies' interview questions could be challenging


## Phone Screening Interview

#### Why Phone Screening?
* Check your identify
* Understand your tech stack 
* Understand your past achievement
* Double check with what you have written on your resume to make sure you might be a good fit for the role
* Also, provide an opportunity for you to know the role

#### What may be asked?
* Introduce yourself
* Talk about your tech stack
* Talk about a project and achievement that you worked on
* (Optional) Some company may include a verbal coding test in a phone screening interview

#### Tips:
* Interview is mutual. Ask questions back. This is the chance for you to understand this role as well.
     * e.g. If you would like to do more project works rather than operations, get a clarification about the role
* Be able to expand any bullet point that you have put on your resume.
* Don't be disappointed if you did not get a good outcome from this one: it simply means that you don't fit each other.     
* If you both interested in each other, talking about the potential compensation range would not hurt.      
  
## Coding Interview

### Why coding interview?
Face-to-face (Zoom) with your favorite IDE and Browser to check: 
* if you can code
* how do you approach a problem
* how do you solve a problem if you don't know the answer
* how fast can you learn

### What format?
A practical open question.
 
For example: help our business build a money exchange system

### How to approach?
* Ask questions to define the problem space
* Implement a terrible/simple solution
* Test that solution
* Optimize that solution (Time Complexity and Space Complexity). 
  Knowledge that you may need:
    * Solid understanding on Time Complexity and Space Complexity
    * Solid understanding on Basic Data Structure
        * Queue
            Priority Queue
        * Stack
        * List, Array, String, Set
        * Hash Table
    * Know the basic algorithms
        * Sorting
            * Bubble Sort
            * Merge Sort
            * Insertion Sort
            * Selection Sort
            * Quick Sort
            * The sort algorithm that your function uses
            
        * Graph
            * Breath-first
            * Depth-first
            * Dijkstra's algorithm
            
        * Search
            * Binary Search

    * Strategy
        * Recursive
        * Divide-and-Conquer
        
* Preparation Source
    * Hackerrank
    * Leetcode
    * Geeksforgeeks
    * Youtube
        
## Technical Interview

### Why Technical Interview?
* How broad or deep your knowledge is
    * Do you know the best practises
    * Do you have some framework/methodology when solving problems? (top-down/bottom-up)
    * Are you able to provide answers from multiple perspectives?
    * Are you able to provide reasons when making choices or decisions?
    * Are you able to dig into a problem and explain the details?

### What is the format?
The questions are rather open to let you design a system or debug an issue and improve upon it.
Also, it is possible that the interviewers ask you about the projects that you did and expand the questions from there.

### How to appoarch?
* Ask questions to define the scope
* Break things down and follow a logic flow (Top-down, bottom-up, upstream to downstream, downstream to upstream)
* Breadth is good, but make sure you prepare something deep which can help you gain more points. 
    * e.g. a common issue for prometheus, it does not work with a multithreaded server directly. 
    * e.g. why choose locust over gatling
  

## Culture/Managerial Interview

### Why the interview?

* Managers would like to know your personality to see if you fit the team
* Managers would like to know your behaviours to see if you fit the team
* Managers would like to know your attitude to see if you fit the team
* Managers would like to know if you are able to drive a project/deliver work or be able team player

### Behavioural Questions

The purpose of behavioural interview questions is to understand who you are, how you think, and how you approach real world dilemmas. 

Your answers to these behavioural questions can help the interviewer gauge how you may (or may not) complement the current team.

While the goal of the interviewer is to learn more about you, your goal is to position yourself in the best possible light.

Let’s take a look at the six most common behavioural questions you may encounter during your interview, along with a plan for how to answer them below.

* Describe a time when you disagreed with a team member. How did you resolve the problem?
* Tell me about a time when you failed.
* Give me an example of when you had to assume leadership for a team.
* What is the most difficult/ challenging situation you’ve ever had to resolved in the workplace?
* Tell me about a time when you disagreed with a supervisor.
* How do you approach problems? What’s your process?

Also, most behavioural interview questions can be separated into groups:
* Problem Solving
* Working on a Team
* Biggest Failures
* Leadership
* Personal Stress

Answering strategy:
STAR - Situation - Task - Action - Result



### Hypothetical interview questions
It is about what characteristics do you have and what values would you add to the team?
* Role Play
* There are certain characteristics that you must have (Integrity, Openness, Honesty)


### Homework
1. Review your resume and send it to me if you feel like it is ready to be reviewed
2. Pick a few questions that you believe you may have trouble with
        * record a video
        * send it to me to review yu.wang.jr@gmail.com
3. Do peer interview and provide feedback to each other to gain the most of it. 

